Content: New alien species: Incipias (no.3) (#8949)
endless-sky/endless-sky: data/incipias/incipias.txt

# Copyright (c) 2023 by RisingLeaf (https://github.com/RisingLeaf)
#
# Endless Sky is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
# terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
# Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
#
# Endless Sky is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
# WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
# PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.
#
# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
# this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

# Ship names:
phrase "hicemus military"
	word
		"HIC "
	word
		"Ab"
		"Do"
		"Na"
		"Ar"
		"La"
	word
		"is"
		"as"
		"os"
		"im"
		"it"
	word

> 		"en #"

Author: no it does not

> 		"en #"

Reviewer: OK.

# Copyright (c) 2023 by RisingLeaf (https://github.com/RisingLeaf)
#
# Endless Sky is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
# terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
# Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
#
# Endless Sky is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
# WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
# PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.
#
# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
# this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

# Ship names:
phrase "hicemus military"
	word

> 		"HIC "

Author: I think of it as a label like USS

	government "Hicemus"
	names "hicemus military"
	cargo 0
	personality
		heroic vindictive swarming
	variant 5
		"Nimbus"
	variant 1
		"Nimbus" 2

fleet "Hicemus Standard Trade"
	government "Incipias Civilian"
	names "incipias civilian"
	cargo 4
	personality
		confusion 40
		timid frugal appeasing
	variant 5
		"Cirrus"
	variant 1
		"Nimbus"
	variant 4
		"Cirrus" 2

outfitter "Hicemus"
	"Plasma Discharger"
	"Tractor Beam"
	"Gas Class Shield"
	"Liquid Class Shield"
	"Liquid Hydrogen Cell"
	"Heavy Machine Gun"

	"MH Blue-Class Engine"
	"MH Blue-Class Steering"
	"MH Green-Class Engine"
	"MH Green-Class Steering"
	"MH Red-Class Engine"
	"MH Red-Class Steering"

shipyard "Hicemus"
	"Cirrus"
	"Stratus"
	"Nimbus"

news "Incipias common"
	location
		government "Incipias" "Hicemus"
	name
		word
			"Incipias Captain"
			"Incipias Crew Member"
	message
		word
			"You say you left this [system, home]? One day, [I, we] will also see other [systems, homes]."
			"There were more [interesting, dangerous] times, to fly a spaceship, nower days a lot of people have one."
			"I just got my license for being part of a spaceship renewed, the government controls them [strictly, like freaks]."

> 			"There is nothing more [exciting, fun] to switch in turbines mode and fly through the clouds of [our home, our origin]."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			"There is nothing more [exciting, fun] to switch to turbine mode and fly through the clouds of [our home, our origin]."
```

> 			"It has been [some, a lot of] time since the last great breakthrough has been achieved. The government [says, promises us] that they work on something, but my guess is that they have no clue what to do."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			"It has been [some, a lot of] time since the last great breakthrough has been achieved. The government [says, promises us] that they are working on something, but my guess is that they have no clue what to do."
```

> 			"I saw a plasma discharger with a leak not so long ago, the ship looked good from the outside, but inside of it was a firestorm."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			"I saw a plasma discharger with a [leak, crack] not so long ago. The ship looked good from the outside, but the inside was a firestorm."
```

			"I have never seen something like [you, your species], why don't you float like us?"

phrase "incipias common"
	phrase
		"incipias common hard defined"
		"incipias common generated"

> phrase "incipias common hard defined"

Reviewer 2: Is it intentional that the hails here are just repeats of the above?

Author: uh, will have to look into that

Author: now using the phrase

	word
		"You say you left this [system, home]? One day, [I, we] will also see other [systems, homes]."
		"There were more [interesting, dangerous] times, to fly a spaceship, nower days a lot of people have one."
		"I just got my license for being part of a spaceship renewed, the government controls them [strictly, like freaks]."
		"There is nothing more [exciting, fun] to switch in turbines mode and fly through the clouds of [our home, our origin]."
		"It has been [some, a lot of] time since the last great breakthrough has been achieved. The government [says, promises us] that they work on something, but my guess is that they have no clue what to do."
		"I saw a plasma discharger with a leak not so long ago, the ship looked good from the outside, but inside of it was a firestorm."
		"I have never seen something like [you, your species], why don't you float like us?"

phrase "incipias common generated"
	word
		"These technologies"

> 		"These [ships, relocate mechanisms]"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"These [ships, relocation mechanisms]"
```

		"These [weapons, death machines]"
		"These [engines, movement devices]"

> 		"These [shields, secure mechanism]"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"These [shields, secure mechanisms]"
```

	word
		" "
	word
		"of yours"
		"you have"
		"you have installed"
		"of your kind"
	word
		" "
	word
		"are very impressive."
		"look very impressive."
		"are very efficient."
		"look very efficient."
		"look very stylish."

news "Hicemus official"
	location
		government "Hicemus"
	name
		word
			"Hicemus Police Officer"
			"Hicemus Executive"
	message
		word

> 			"We go forward to [evolve, be superior], no one can stop us."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			"We go forward to [evolve, be superior]. No one can stop us."
```

> 			"Have you seen our newest engines, they are much more efficient than anything before them."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			"Have you seen our newest engines? They are much more efficient than anything before them."
```

> 			"Our technology is superior, no one can question our authority."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			"Our technology is superior. No one can question our authority."
```

phrase "incipias common praise"
	word
		"These technologies"
		"These ships"
		"These death-weapons"
		"These engines"
		"These life-shields"
	word
		" "
	word
		"of yours"
		"you have"
		"you have installed"
		"of your kind"
	word
		" "
	word
		"are very impressive."
		"are very efficient."
		"look very stylish."

news "Hicemus official"
	location
		government "Hicemus"
	name
		word
			"Hicemus Police Officer"
			"Hicemus Executive"
			"Hicemus Inspector"
	message
		word
			"We go forward to evolve. No one can stop us."
			"Have you seen our newest engines? They are much more efficient than anything before them."
			"Our technology is superior. No one can question our authority."
			"As long as we exist, we will progress."
			"The beginning of a new age of space travel is near."

phrase "incipias friendly disabled"
	word
		"Friend"
		"Known-stranger"
		"Fellow Captain"
	word
		", I am "
	word
		"in a bad situation"
		"in trouble"
		"in need of repairs"
		"unable to fly"
		"on the brink of uselessness"
	word
		","
	word
		" could you please "
	word
		"assist me"
		"safe me"
		"perform an outstanding deed"
	word
		"?"

phrase "incipias hostile disabled"
	word

> 		"Would you really take the future?"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"Would you really take-destroy our future?"
```

		"Nimbus (Mining)"

fleet "Incipias Standard Trade"
	government "Incipias Civilian"
	names "incipias civilian"
	cargo 50
	personality
		confusion 40
		timid appeasing
	variant 5
		"Nimbo Cirrus"
	variant 1
		"Nimbus (Civil)"
	variant 4
		"Nimbo Cirrus" 2
	variant 3
		"Gero"
	variant 2
		"Gero" 2
	variant 2
		"Gero"
		"Nimbo Cirrus"
	variant 1
		"Nimbo Cirrus" 2
		"Nimbus (Civil)"

outfitter "Hicemus"
	"Plasma Discharger"
	"Tractor Beam"
	"Gas-Class Shield"
	"Liquid-Class Shield"
	"Liquid Hydrogen Cell"
	"Heavy Machine Gun"

	"MH Blue-Class Engine"
	"MH Blue-Class Steering"
	"MH Green-Class Engine"
	"MH Green-Class Steering"
	"MH Red-Class Engine"
	"MH Red-Class Steering"

shipyard "Hicemus"
	"Nimbo Cirrus"
	"Nimbo Stratus"
	"Nimbus"

news "Incipias common"
	location
		government "Conlatio" "Hicemus"
	name
		word
			"Incipias Captain"
			"Incipias Crew Member"
	message
		phrase
			"incipias common hard defined"
			"incipias common praise"

phrase "incipias common"
	phrase
		"incipias common hard defined"
		"incipias common praise"

phrase "incipias common hard defined"
	word
		"You say you left this [system, home]? One day, [I, we] will also see other [systems, homes]."

> 		"There were more [interesting, dangerous] times, to fly a spaceship, nower days a lot of people have one."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"The past was a more [interesting, dangerous] time to fly a spaceship. Nowadays, a lot of people have one."
```

		"I just got my license for being part of a spaceship renewed. The government controls them [strictly, like freaks]."
		"There is nothing more [exciting, fun] to switch to turbine mode and fly through the clouds of [our home, our origin]."
		"It has been [some, a lot of] time since the last great breakthrough has been achieved. The government [says, promises us] that they are working on something, but my guess is that they have no clue what to do."
		"I saw a plasma discharger with a [leak, crack] not so long ago. The ship looked good from the outside, but the inside was a firestorm."
		"I have never seen something like [you, your species]. Why don't you float like us?"

> 		"I was on a mining mission not so long ago when I saw a goverment ship drop a small box. The box accelerated really fast in one direction and disappeared with a flash."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"I was on a mining mission not so long ago when I saw a government ship drop a small box. The box accelerated really fast in one direction and disappeared with a flash."
```

phrase "incipias common praise"
	word
		"These technologies"
		"These [ships, relocation mechanisms]"
		"These [weapons, death machines]"
		"These [engines, movement devices]"
		"These [shields, secure mechanisms]"
	word
		" "
	word
		"of yours"
		"you have"
		"you have installed"
		"of your kind"
	word
		" "
	word
		"are very impressive."
		"are very efficient."
		"look very stylish."

phrase "incipias common disabled"
	word
		"Friend"

> 		"[Known one, Stranger]"

Reviewer 2: Aren't these oxymorons?

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure I follow. Aren't the words in brackets supposed to be interchangeable?

		"Fellow Captain"
	word
		", I am "
	word
		"in a [bad, unlucky] situation"
		"in trouble"
		"in need of repairs"
		"[unable to fly, near death]"
		"on the brink of getting useless"
	word
		" could you please "
	word
		"assist me"
		"[repair, safe] me"
		"perform an outstanding deed"
	word
		"?"

phrase "incipias hostile disabled"
	word
		"Would you really take [lifes, the future]?"
		"Where is your honor?"
		"What would happen to our civilisation if there were more like you?"
		"Stop your [rampage, chaos]!"

> 		"Do you not value [life, future]?"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"Do you not value [life, the future]?"
```

# Copyright (c) 2023 by RisingLeaf (https://github.com/RisingLeaf)
#
# Endless Sky is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the
# terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
# Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
#
# Endless Sky is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
# WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
# PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.
#
# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
# this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

# Ship names:
phrase "hicemus military"
	word
		"HIC "
	phrase
		"latin name"
	word
		"en #"
	phrase
		"hex color"

phrase "incipias civilian"
	phrase

> 		"vokal consonant (capitalized)" 5

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"vocal consonant (capitalized)" 5
```

> 		"consonant vokal (capitalized)" 10

Reviewer 3: Shouldn't these be `vocal`?

> 		"consonant vokal (capitalized)" 10

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"consonant vocal (capitalized)" 10
```

	word
		"'"
	phrase
		"latin name"
	word
		"ius"
		"ias"
		"ium"
		"iam"
	word
		" #"
	phrase
		"hex color"

phrase "latin name"
	phrase

> 		"vokal consonant (capitalized)" 5

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"vocal consonant (capitalized)" 5
```

> 		"consonant vokal (capitalized)" 10

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"consonant vocal (capitalized)" 10
```

	phrase

> 		"vokal consonant" 10

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"vocal consonant" 10
```

> 		"consonant vokal" 5

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"consonant vocal" 5
```

	phrase

> 		"vokal consonant" 5

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"vocal consonant" 5
```

> 		"consonant vokal" 10

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"consonant vocal" 10
```

> phrase "vokal consonant"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
phrase "vocal consonant"
```

	phrase

> 		"vokal"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"vocal"
```

	phrase
		"consonant"

> phrase "consonant vokal"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
phrase "consonant vocal"
```

	phrase
		"consonant"
	phrase

> 		"vokal"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"vocal"
```

> phrase "vokal consonant (capitalized)"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
phrase "vocal consonant (capitalized)"
```

	phrase

> 		"vokal (capitalized)"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"vocal (capitalized)"
```

	phrase
		"consonant"

> phrase "consonant vokal (capitalized)"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
phrase "consonant vocal (capitalized)"
```

	phrase
		"consonant (capitalized)"
	phrase

> 		"vokal"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"vocal"
```

> phrase "vokal"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
phrase "vocal"
```

	word
		"a"
		"e"
		"i"
		"o"
		"u"

> phrase "vokal (capitalized)"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
phrase "vocal (capitalized)"
```

		"Nimbo Cirrus" 2
	variant 3
		"Gero"
	variant 2
		"Gero" 2
	variant 2
		"Gero"
		"Nimbo Cirrus"
	variant 1
		"Nimbo Cirrus" 2
		"Nimbus (Civil)"

outfitter "Hicemus"
	"Plasma Discharger"
	"Stagnation Beam"
	"Gas-Class Shield"
	"Liquid-Class Shield"
	"Liquid Hydrogen Cell"
	"Heavy Machine Gun"

	"MH Blue-Class Engine"
	"MH Blue-Class Steering"
	"MH Green-Class Engine"
	"MH Green-Class Steering"
	"MH Red-Class Engine"
	"MH Red-Class Steering"

shipyard "Hicemus"
	"Nimbo Cirrus"
	"Nimbo Stratus"
	"Nimbus"
	"Gero"

news "Incipias common"
	location
		government "Conlatio" "Hicemus"
	name
		word
			"Incipias Captain"
			"Incipias Crew Member"
	message
		phrase
			"incipias common hard defined"
			"incipias common praise"

phrase "incipias common"
	phrase
		"incipias common hard defined"
		"incipias common praise"

phrase "incipias common hard defined"
	word
		"You say you left this [system, home]? One day, [I, we] will also see other [systems, homes]."
		"The past was a more [interesting, dangerous] time to fly a spaceship. Nowadays, a lot of people have one."
		"I just got my license for being part of a spaceship renewed. The government controls them [strictly, like freaks]."

> 		"There is nothing more [exciting, fun] to switch to turbine mode and fly through the clouds of [our home, our origin]."

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
		"There is nothing more [exciting, fun] than to switch to turbine mode and fly through the clouds of [our home, our origin]."
```

		"I saw a plasma discharger with a [leak, crack] not so long ago. The ship looked good from the outside, but the inside was a firestorm."
		"I have never seen something like [you, your species]. Why don't you float like us?"
		"I was on a mining mission not so long ago when I saw a government ship drop a small box. The box accelerated really fast in one direction and disappeared with a flash."

phrase "incipias common praise"
	word
		"These technologies"
		"These [ships, relocation mechanisms]"
		"These [weapons, death machines]"
		"These [engines, movement devices]"
		"These [shields, secure mechanisms]"
	word
		" "
	word
		"of yours"
		"you have"
		"you have installed"
		"of your kind"
	word
		" "
	word
		"are very impressive."
		"are very efficient."
		"look very stylish."

phrase "incipias friendly disabled"
	word
		"Friend"
		"[Known one, Stranger]"
		"Fellow Captain"
	word
		", I am "
	word
		"in a [bad, unlucky] situation"
		"in trouble"
		"in need of repairs"
		"[unable to fly, near death]"

> 		"on the brink of getting useless"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		"on the brink of uselessness"
```

	variant 5
		"Nimbo Stratus"
	variant 5
		"Nimbo Stratus" 2
	variant 1
		"Nimbo Stratus"
		"Nimbus (Mining)"

fleet "Incipias Standard Trade"
	government "Incipias Civilian"
	names "incipias civilian"
	cargo 50
	personality
		confusion 40
		timid appeasing
	variant 5
		"Nimbo Cirrus"
	variant 1
		"Nimbus (Civil)"
	variant 4
		"Nimbo Cirrus" 2
	variant 3
		"Gero"
	variant 2
		"Gero" 2
	variant 2
		"Gero"
		"Nimbo Cirrus"
	variant 1
		"Nimbo Cirrus" 2
		"Nimbus (Civil)"

outfitter "Hicemus"
	"Plasma Discharger"
	"Stagnation Beam"
	"Gas-Class Shield"
	"Liquid-Class Shield"
	"Metallic Hydrogen Cell"
	"Cloud Piercer"

	"MH Blue-Class Engine"
	"MH Blue-Class Steering"
	"MH Green-Class Engine"
	"MH Green-Class Steering"
	"MH Red-Class Engine"
	"MH Red-Class Steering"

shipyard "Hicemus"
	"Nimbo Cirrus"
	"Nimbo Stratus"
	"Nimbus"
	"Gero"

news "Incipias common"
	location
		government "Conlatio" "Hicemus"
	name
		word
			"Incipias Captain"
			"Incipias Crew Member"
			""
	message
		phrase
			"incipias common hard defined"
			"incipias common praise"

phrase "incipias common"
	phrase
		"incipias common hard defined"
		"incipias common praise"

phrase "incipias common hard defined"
	word

> 		"You say you left this [system, home]? One day, [I, we] will also see other [systems, homes]."

Reviewer 2: These hails should be changed to reflect the Incipias' new translation convention.

		"The past was a more [interesting, dangerous] time to fly a spaceship. Nowadays, a lot of people have one."
		"I just got my license for being part of a spaceship renewed. The government controls them [strictly, like freaks]."
		"There is nothing more [exciting, fun] than to switch to turbine mode and fly through the clouds of [our home, our origin]."

> 		"It has been [some, a lot of] time since the last great breakthrough has been achieved. The government [says, promises us] that they are working on something, but my guess is that they have no clue what to do."

Reviewer 2: What kind of breakthrough are they talking about here? Technological? Political? Scientific?

Author: technological

	word
		"'"
	phrase
		"latin name"
	word
		"ius"
		"ias"
		"ium"
		"iam"
	word
		" #"
	phrase
		"hex color"

phrase "latin name"
	phrase
		"vocal consonant (capitalized)" 5
		"consonant vocal (capitalized)" 10
	phrase
		"vocal consonant" 10
		"consonant vocal" 5
	phrase
		"vocal consonant" 5
		"consonant vocal" 10

phrase "vocal consonant"
	phrase
		"vocal"
	phrase
		"consonant"

phrase "consonant vocal"
	phrase
		"consonant"
	phrase
		"vocal"

phrase "vocal consonant (capitalized)"
	phrase
		"vocal (capitalized)"
	phrase
		"consonant"

phrase "consonant vocal (capitalized)"
	phrase
		"consonant (capitalized)"
	phrase
		"vocal"

phrase "vocal"
	word
		"a"
		"e"
		"i"
		"o"
		"u"

phrase "vocal (capitalized)"
	word
		"A"
		"E"
		"I"
		"O"
		"U"

phrase "consonant"
	word
		"b"
		"d"
		"g"
		"k"
		"l"
		"m"
		"n"
		"r"
		"s"
		"t"

phrase "consonant (capitalized)"
	word
		"B"
		"D"
		"G"
		"K"
		"L"
		"M"
		"N"
		"R"
		"S"
		"T"

phrase "hex color"
	phrase
		"hex digit"
	phrase
		"hex digit"
	phrase
		"hex digit"
	phrase
		"hex digit"
	phrase
		"hex digit"
	phrase
		"hex digit"

phrase "hex digit"
	word
		"0"
		"1"
		"2"
		"3"
		"4"
		"5"
		"6"
		"7"
		"8"
		"9"

> 		"a"

Reviewer 4: These should be capitalized as well, right?

Author: I normally do not capitalize my hex numbers?

Reviewer 4: Okay. Resolve this.

		"incipias common advise" 3

phrase "incipias common hard defined"
	word
		"You say you left this home-system? One day, I will also see other home-systems."
		"The before-present was a more interesting time to fly a spaceship. Nowadays, a lot of people have one."
		"I just got my crewmember-ship-license renewed. The government controls them strictly."
		"There is nothing more exciting than to switch to turbine mode and fly through the landscape-clouds of our origin-home."
		"It has been some time since the last great knowledge-breakthrough has been achieved in technological research-understanding. The government promises us that they are working on something, but my guess is that they have no clue what to do."
		"I saw a plasma discharger with a leak-crack not so long ago. The ship looked good from the outside, but the inside was a firestorm."
		"I have never seen something like your species. Why don't you float like us?"
		"I was on a mining mission-job not so long ago when I saw a government ship drop a small box. The box accelerated very fast in one direction and disappeared with a flash."

phrase "incipias common praise"
	word
		"These technologies"

> 		"These ships"

Reviewer 4: These ships of mine?

Author: Where is the problem?

Reviewer 4: There isn’t one, my first read-through got it wrong. You can resolve this.

		"These death-weapons"
		"These engines"
		"These life-shields"
	word
		" "
	word
		"of yours"
		"you have"
		"you have installed"
		"of your kind"
	word
		" "
	word
		"are very impressive."
		"are very efficient."

> 		"look very stylish."

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
		"look very stylish."
		"look to work very well."
```
One more description idea.

Author: ```suggestion
		"look very stylish."
		"seem to work with utmost efficiency."
```

Reviewer 4: Yes, that works.

phrase "incipias common interest"
	word
		"What "
	word
		"have you seen"
		"happened to you"
		"did you encounter"
		"wonders lie"
	word
		" "
	word
		"beyond our system-home"
		"in the stars"
		"away from safety"
		"past our travel-borders"
	word
		"? "
	word
		"Were you impressed?"
		"Was it fearsome?"
		"Was it dangerous?"

phrase "incipias common advise"
	word
		"See"
		"Look at"
		"Pay attention to"

> 		"Light"

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
		"Follow"
```
The current version doesn’t quite make sense.

Author: Well that's the thing though, when translating not everything will make sense, although if people find it very distrubing I will change it

Reviewer 4: I’m not “people” by any means, so if you think it works better the way it is than keep it that way.

Author: I will just wait for more opinions

Reviewer 4: Good.

Reviewer 5: Wanderer dialogue is already full of things that don't quite translate well so this fits right in.

Reviewer 4: If it won’t be hard to understand, it’s fine to keep it in. Seeing as how @roadrunner56 thought it worked, this can probably be resolved.
